# Comparision between Amazon S3 and Amazon EBS

AWS Cloud Practitioners, welcome to the clash of the storage class! In the block storage corner, weighing in at sizes up to 16 tebibytes each, with a unique ability to survive the termination of their Amazon EC2 instances, they are solid state, they are spinning platters, they are Amazon Elastic Block Storage!

In the regional object storage corner, weighing in at unlimited storage, with individual objects at 5,000 gigabytes in size, they specialize in write once/read many, they are 99 .999 999 999% durable, they are Amazon Simple Storage Service!

Head-to-head, each storage class boasts the best dynamically distributed design for different storage demands. Which storage class will ultimately be victorious in this thunderdome slugfest? To understand who wins, you need to clarify a use case.

Round one. Let's say you're running a photo analysis website where users upload a photo of themselves, and your application finds the animals that look just like them. You have potentially millions of animal pictures that all need to be indexed and possibly viewed by thousands of people at once. This is the perfect use case for S3. S3 is already web enabled. Every object already has a URL that you can control access rights to who can see or manage the image. It's regionally distributed, which means that it has 11 nines of durability, so no need to worry about backup strategies. S3 is your backup strategy. Plus the cost savings is substantial overrunning the same storage load on EBS. With the additional advantage of being serverless, no Amazon EC2 instances are needed. Sounds like S3 is the judge's winner here for this round.

But wait, round two, you have an 80-gigabyte video file that you're making edit corrections on. To know the best storage class here, we need to understand the difference between object storage and block storage. Object storage treats any file as a complete, discreet object. Now this is great for documents, and images, and video files that get uploaded and consumed as entire objects, but every time there's a change to the object, you must re-upload the entire file. There are no delta updates. Block storage breaks those files down to small component parts or blocks. This means, for that 80-gigabyte file, when you make an edit to one scene in the film and save that change, the engine only updates the blocks where those bits live. If you're making a bunch of micro edits, using EBS, elastic block storage, is the perfect use case. If you were using S3, every time you saved the changes, the system would have to upload all 80 gigabytes, the whole thing, every time. EBS clearly wins round two.

This means, if you are using complete objects or only occasional changes, S3 is victorious. If you are doing complex read, write, change functions, then, absolutely, EBS is your knockout winner. Your winner depends on your individual workload. Each service is the right service for specific needs. Once you understand what you need, you will know which service is your champion!
